* W08 READINGS 
" 
        This week introduces me to so many things which I am already familiar
        with, while others are coming new to me. I enjoy reading while learning
        current ideas including practicing some development skills set most
        importantly the Video, Audio, SVG, Canvas elements, etc. both in HTML
        (Hypertext Markup Language), JavaScript, and CSS (Cascading Style
        Sheets).

        I learned that videos on the web are based on container formats and
        codecs and the container serves as a wrapper that will store all the
        necessary data that would be comprised of the video file being accessed
        (in other words; behave like ZIP). Some examples of these video
        containers are flash video, MPEG-4, MP4 or M4V, and AVI, respectively.
        It also includes a video track and audio track with markers that help
        synchronize them and other bits of metadata that describe the content. A
        video codec seems like an algorithm for encoding and decoding a
        multimedia data stream while audio codecs deal with the streaming of
        sound rather than video frames. The relevant ones in HTML5 are AAC,
        Vorbis, and MP3, respectively.

        I also learned that HTML5 canvas API is used to draw anything we can
        just imagine all through JavaScript. It is used to improve the
        performance of our website by avoiding the need to download images over
        the network. We can use canvas to draw shapes and lines, arcs and text,
        gradients, and patterns, respectively. It gives us the power to
        manipulate our pixels in images and videos as well. It also has the
        power to take our modern-looking color videos and convert them into a
        conventional black and white to match the overall look and feel of our
        desired website.

        Lastly, Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG0 is a format that allows us to
        describe vector graphics using XML. SVG preserves the quality of images
        in different formats as it blows them up or shrinks them down. It is
        learned that we could use it to do many of the same tasks we do with
        canvas including drawing paths, shapes, text, gradients, and patterns.
        They are especially useful and open-source tools that are relevant.

        Thank you, sir. 
        
        Dagwan Pan’an Danladi 
" 

 
 

 